Already in the last week we managed to read the file in order to display the data.
And as you can see making changes to mathematics or mathematics here doesn't really help.
So from the last video each time I restart the program I get mathematics here because that's what I
had stored in my cute editor.
But what we're going to add in this video is the new entry functionality so this button should get some
functionality so that we get a new entry here at the bottom where we then actually can enter a new value.
So a new student of course it will not be stored won't be saved yet but that's something that we will
look at in the next video.
But for now let's just add this new entry button functionality in order to do so.
It really makes sense to start by creating a new method for that so I'm going to say new or new entry.
And what I want to write in here is actually I want to first of all create a new row.
And in order to do so I need to know how many rows to work so I can pretty much use the same functionality
that we had here where we said OK give me the row count and I'm going to save it or stored in this variable
called row count.
Now the next thing I can do here is I can insert a row or using the insert row functionality that we
have used here as well so I can pretty much use the same functionality you can just copy and paste it
as you can see we'll just create a new row for me.
And now I need to connect that button functionality in my constructor here.
So I need to say self-taught UI new entry button.
So the Watts's button called new entry button.
And if we check our cute editor we will see that this is the new entry button.
While we're here I'm gonna save myrth more ticks in here.
So let me save it and let me rerun the build real quick.
OK.
So this new entry button I want to connect it.
And how do we do that.
Well we said I want to connect the clicked event to a specific method.
So to the method called on new entry and here we don't want to call the method but we just want to pass
the method as a well as a whole method.
So the name not the actual call.
OK so now we have this click event we connected to it and now we should be able to create new entries.
So let's run this and new entry and if we make this a little bigger you can see that it creates new
entries for me.
Now I can already click into it.
I can make some changes but they will be empty.
So this will be empty empty empty.
But what I want to have in there is an empty string because they are pretty much empty.
And I can fill them with empty strings and I can even set the focus to it.
So let's say I start this app and I create a new entry I want to set the focus directly onto this row
here onto the cell to be precise and I want to be able to enter something there straight away.
How do I do that.
Well let's check it out.
First of all we want to set items elements to an empty string and we do that by using self-actualize
Students table.
And we set an item.
Now we need to say at which row we want to do that.
And I would like to do that at row count and add the column 0.
I would like to add a value called or qued widgets that qued table items that you can see here qued
table or queue table widget item.
So queue table widget item that's the one I need.
And in here I can just enter a string for example which I'm just going to say OK it's going to be an
empty string.
So I leave it like this.
Now I'm going to do the same thing with two more rows because I need to do that with column one and
column two.
So I just copied and pasted the code.
And now each time I do that let's see what the changes are be creating new entry and the thing is you
don't see any changes but it already will have created an empty string in here which is more than it
was before.
And now what I want to do is I want to actually focus on a particular cell and I want to added an item
straight away because if I for example directy want to added this particular cell here this one so so
it should focus on this one.
And how do we do that.
Well there is something called added item.
There's a method called added item which we pretty much want to call and in order to do so we need to
create a cell variable.
So going to show you in a second.
First let's create this added item or call this added item you see self.
And it requires an item and now that item that cries of type q table widget item so the same type that
we had here.
So what we can do now is we can simply say OK this cell that we're looking at should be self taught
you find students table at the row that we're currently looking at and call them zero.
So I can just pass this sell here and I can save it and run it again.
Now you will see something.
So that means creating your entry as you can see now the cursor straight away in sight of this cell
and why is that.
Because we created those two lines and 25 and 26 which say OK I created you cell and the cell should
be the row count.
So pretty much the cell that we've just created by pressing your entry as you can see rockhound is the
amount of rows that we had.
So if we had 10 rows for example and now we create an eleventh one it will have the index of 10.
So it's pretty much just new Roder we have just created.
So it's going to be this one.
And now I say OK please added this item called cell and this item called cell.
Is this item here which is in row count pretty much.
In this case 0 1 2 3 4 5 and 6 so it's at rockhound 6 and in column 0 we have defined here.
OK.
So row count and zero.
So just says OK I'm going to edit this item sell.
So that's pretty cool.
And that's already very convenient because now we can create a new entry and we can directly enter something
in here.
And so that's how easy it is to do that.
OK now we don't have the save button yet.
We don't store any changes.
If my press save and I close the application I start the application once again you can see that the
new entry is not there.
So that's something that we're going to look at in the next video.
So see you there.